Hey listeners, Christopher Mims here
from Bold Names. We've got something a
little different for you this week. Tim
and I have been talking a lot about robo
taxis lately and we thought this was the
perfect time to revisit one of our
favorite interviews. Aisha Evans, the
CEO of Zuks. Just in time for hot robo
taxi summer. You might have heard our
conversation earlier this year. And now
that Tesla is officially testing its
self-driving cars on streets in Austin,
Texas, and Whimo is expanding, Evans
insights into the robo taxi business are
even more timely. And make sure to stick
around after the interview because we've
got a brand new segment where Tim and I
go deep into why the stakes are so high
as these companies try to win customers
trust. Especially people who you might
not think of as robo taxi riders like
parents tired of driving their teens
around. People like me. That's next.
Recently, my co-host Tim Higgins took a
ride around San Francisco in a vehicle
made by Zuks, Amazon's robo taxi
startup.
>> Uh, actually, yeah, we'll ride forward.
Why not?
>> Okay.
>> It's your first time, so.
>> Yeah. Oh, should I sit over there?
>> All right. So,
>> unlike some of its rivals, Zuk's
vehicles don't look like traditional
cars. They're sort of like toasters on
wheels or maybe a theme park ride that
hopped off the rails. They don't have
brake pedals or a steering wheel. Just
two rows of seats facing each other.
>> It's almost like a lounge.
>> That's was it was actually the London
cab was the inspiration. You can go
ahead and press start for your ride.
>> Yeah. There you go.
>> And yeah, the whole thing is uh we don't
want you to think about driving.
>> Uh-huh. People want you to think about
being transported.
>> Tim hitched a ride with Zuks's CEO,
Aisha Evans. Before this, she was a
senior executive at Intel. And after she
was brought on board at Zuks in 2019,
she sold the startup to Amazon for $1.2
billion.
She's a skilled manager who in many ways
has met this moment in autonomous
driving. A time when what she calls
patient and smart capital is required to
get to the end of a self-driving race
that has proved to be a marathon.
>> Runs into what happens if it approaches
a driving situation that it doesn't
understand?
>> It just did, by the way. Well, right.
This one it understood. It saw some
people opening their doors. So it went
around it.
>> Uh
>> in an industry where scale could prove
to be everything and safety is
paramount, Evan's style of calm, steady
as she goes leadership could hardly be a
bigger contrast with that of a
competitor, Tesla CEO Elon Musk. But
Amazon has put a lot of money into Zuks,
which will be starting a commercial robo
taxi service in Las Vegas this year.
This is not an industry where companies
can afford to be cavalier with safety,
and Evans knows it.
uh if you do a prompt on one of the best
AI engines today
>> and you know it's 99% right and it's
maybe it's annoying but that's okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh in our space if it's wrong 1% of the
time that is not okay.
>> You just can't that that's not
acceptable right
>> uh the bar has to be way higher than
that.
>> From the Wall Street Journal I'm
Christopher Mims and I'm Tim Higgins.
This is Bold Names, where you'll hear
from the leaders of the bold name
companies featured in the pages of the
Wall Street Journal. Today we ask, what
was it like taking over a self-driving
car startup at a major turning point in
the industry?
Aisha Evans, welcome. Uh, we want to get
into Zuk's plan for deploying robot
taxis. But first, I think it's worth
taking a little journey back in time to
about how you and Zuks got to this
point. It's almost exactly your sixth
anniversary taking over Zuks as CEO.
You'd come from Intel uh before and your
arrival was really a turning point for
the company. Uh but it was also, as we
would see in the months that followed, a
turning point for the driverless car
industry that had been up until 2020 in
overdrive, very frothy, as we like to
say here in Silicon Valley, but then the
cash was disappearing. So I'm curious
when you took over what was your first
priority?
>> My first priority like I would call it
priority zero is you're coming in from a
very established company. Uh I told the
team that uh I wanted them I knew it
would be okay when they would not
remember that I wasn't here at the
beginning and so talking to a lot of
people understanding what's really going
on getting a feel for the industry. uh
after that I went to priority one uh
which was uh it takes a lot of capital
and a lot of patience to do this and uh
so we needed to solve that.
>> What was your strategy for pivoting
Zuks's strategy with these employees?
Many of them had begun with this scrappy
startup with a a very charismatic
founder who had really bold vision for
where he was going to take Zuks. So what
was that like for you? It was uh lonely.
Um but it was look I I have a slightly
different view. Uh when you think about
essentially these are computers on wheel
from a technology standpoint. Uh they
have to be uh safe not just 99% of the
time but 99 point pick your number of
nines. We think it's four plus. That's a
lot of work. You're bringing also a
variety of um experiences, background.
One day you're talking to kind of an AI
genius at the forefront of things. The
next day you're talking to, you know, a
car mechanics kind of person and then a
battery person. So bringing everybody
together and saying congratulations
because you have to have some audacity
and boldness to go after something like
this. And so thanking them,
congratulating them and then saying,
"Okay, but what got we what got us here
won't get us there." And so this is
going to take time. We need to slow
down, stop with all the talking to the
press and making bold claims and go back
into the building and sort of figure out
a uh the capital and partnership uh
situation and b build a road map that is
incremental that is deliberate and use a
lot of analogies and uh know that it's
going to take a while. This is almost
like the beginning of aviation in a way.
>> And one of the big things you did uh
almost immediately was look at that
capital table I imagine and say oh uhoh
we're in trouble right I mean and that
put you on a road a path to eventually
being acquired by Amazon.
>> That is absolutely correct. And uh look
it's not just you need money you need
what I call patient and smart capital
meaning people who understand deep tech.
uh people who can see a bold vision and
the steps towards there uh people who
are close to the compute industry and
who are not going to oscillate too much
and who can afford to take a bet like
this and when you do that math and
calculus there aren't that many
companies were thrilled that we went
with Amazon and uh even though the press
wasn't kind to me at the time I am very
very grateful and proud that we made
that move it freed us up to go after the
work as opposed to making claims and
demos and you know because demos are
very easy in this space. They are
getting even easier but getting this
thing to work to be safe to operate to
wow the customers and build a business
very different movie. So, speaking of
wowing the customers, one of the things
that's so distinctive about Zuks when
you first encounter it is the fact that
your vehicles
look like they are from maybe the near
future. It's not a Cybert truck, but
there it's a lounge inside with two
benches facing each other, right? It
could go forward or backward. Um, it it
feels like a a happy, benevolent future.
everything runs on wind power and um
there are no more car accidents.
Obviously, that's deliberate, but what's
the thinking behind that?
>> First of all, if you step into that
vehicle when we fully commercially
deployed and you think about driving, we
failed. We want you to feel like you're
being transported. Then there is at
scale the level of safety, the level of
control, the level of redundancy that
you need. Negotiating with somebody who
might be a company that's a traditional
OEM that's in a different mindset will
take more capital, will take longer,
more meetings, more back and forth, and
more detours and really take away from
solving what's really a very hard
problem. OEM being a lingo for car maker
out there in the in the in the layman's
world which is I think you're kind of
getting at something we're going to get
into the idea that you're actually
making these cars yourself unlike who
Google's effort which is uh kind of
taking a car and putting its its
equipment onto it and converting it
over.
ground up for zuks which was pretty
radical idea given how much capital was
going to be required right you were not
only developing the self-driving brain
but you were also developing a car and
that is very audacious and very grand so
I guess I'm curious what uh is that
timeline or how close to having paying
customers in the vehicles are you
>> we're getting closer and closer but you
know paying c the journey it's funny we
just had a meeting yesterday and I was
talking to uh some of the leaders and
I'm like look it took us 11 years
uh to put this robo taxi that uh we love
um uh even to this day uh when I
sometimes I'm driving around and I see a
couple who is by I giggle I'm happy and
so but that took 11 years let's not have
a disrespect for the journey to
commercialization and uh customers
that's going to take some some time so
we will dip our toes uh into it later
This year we learned a lot but it'll be
small scale because again that's a new
journey and the next couple of years are
really um exciting for us.
>> And so right now what is you're
currently at the what what is it
currently available like because I'm in
San Francisco and I've seen these
vehicles on the roadway. Um what's going
on? We're testing. We just started
testing in uh in San Francisco in uh in
November and uh also uh in Las Vegas uh
from our depot which is southwest of the
strip all the way up uh the strip. We uh
finally have friends and family riding
uh which is really cool and of course
you know select VIPs whether it's press
regulatory and execs and what have you.
And so, uh, we'll go now into the phase
where they'll be able to, uh, ride, uh,
without a Zuk's host and push every
single button. Uh, and then, uh, we'll
shortly add what we call Zuks explorers,
uh, which will be people that we will
sign up and we'll have the ability to
ride whenever they want. Uh, that period
where somebody will be in the vehicle
and I don't even know who the hell they
are and uh, they'll give us feedback.
So, all that is, uh, is planned. So,
we're at the end of tiny and entering
the beginning of small and then uh
paying customers later this year.
>> We've heard how Zuks is aiming to be a
transportation company that makes you
forget that cars even existed. But
making that happen will require solving
a lot of hard and occasionally gross
real world problems. What happens if
somebody pukes in the car?
>> Ah, this is especially in Vegas. I
suppose we could be prepared for that.
What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas.
Maybe it stays inside the back of a
Zuks. How will Zuks handle the mundane
realities of operating a fleet of
vehicles that people are prepared to
occupy, if not drive like they stole
them? Stay with us.
[Music]
So, as you're moving toward paying
customers, I'm really curious even
further out how this business works
just on a fundamental profit and loss
level. What is your kind of unit basis
for this? Because obviously with Uber,
the reason they have worked as a
business is they don't have to own cars.
They don't have to have the risk of
owning those vehicles. you know, all of
that's taken on by their drivers, but
you have to build vehicles, own them,
maintain them, you know, even if you're
not paying wages to a driver, it seems
like that might be hard to to pencil
out. So, how ultimately do the unit
economics on this work?
>> So, I'm going to be really careful.
First of all, I'm going to back up the
boat a little bit. You've both said
twice build. So, let's let's let's talk
about what we do with the vehicle. We
architect and design it and then we work
with a global supply chain and then what
I would call 20 big Lego pieces arrive
at our factories. Uh we have a prototype
factory uh that they arrive at and then
from there we do assembly test uh
integration bring up and then ship off
to uh depots where they will operate
from. So I want to be very clear there's
no gigafactory here there's no any of
that stuff. So in our case volumes are
low uh because it's our fleet we know it
super well the robot because we designed
it we architected it we put a lot of
features in it thinking already about
operations that's again a first
principle thing the robot pays for
itself very quickly
at the current prices that folks are
used to with the ability to bring down
the pricing over time as you're going to
different phases. I I was at Intel
beforehand. I don't know a lot of
hardware businesses that have a lot of
uh software and algorithms that pay for
themselves overnight. And if anybody
pretends that they know how to do that,
I will just tip my hat to them. Uh
there's going to be a buildup uh where
you'll need profitability all the way to
margin and all the way to the phases of
free cash flow. That will take time, but
the opportunity is immense. And we also
think that the time will be expanded
because there are a lot of folks who
don't ride today that uh will ride in
the future. Uh I was telling Tim, I'm a
soccer mom and uh now I'm lost with
myself because uh my uh my daughter is
in uh in college and I'm like, why do I
have so much time? And I know I have so
much time because I am not driving up
and down the peninsula uh in every nook
and cranny dropping up and picking up
kids for soccer.
>> As a minivan driver and owner, I I
definitely identify with that. And it's
also been amazing to see the uh pickup
of uh Uber's new product for teens,
right? Which of course bolsters your
thesis now, which is there are there are
there's a huge potentially untapped
market. I mean, it doesn't take much
imagination,
>> but I think that one of the things, and
we've kind of been alluding to it,
there's other costs. It's not just the
technology. There are other challenges
that you have going on there. I think
conventional wisdom might be that you
just flip a switch and the robot goes to
work. But, uh, it's not that simple, I'm
betting.
>> No, it's not. Uh, it's more like
aviation than it is, uh, like the robot
vacuum going around your house. Look, I
mean we we have to have a lot of respect
for this. This is a very uh big heavy
robot uh that is roaming around and
driving amongst other human drivers by
the way. And um when you when you look
at the math uh whether it's uh it's
collisions, whether it's injuries,
whether it's fatalities, uh when you
look at the ability to not make mistakes
obviously or at least minimize your
number of mistakes, but also react to
other people's mistakes, it's an
infinite long tail. And so uh we've been
very open uh and very transparent that
we have a telegrance center almost like
a an air traffic control tower type
thing uh where uh there are operators
that the robots can call for help. Uh if
it sees a situation that it knows it
doesn't know how to handle. Imagine like
a super super super super unstructured
construction zone or or some blockage
that is it's not sure how to maneuver
around. It has the ability to call and
say, "Hey, over this period of time and
over this distance, I see something that
doesn't make sense to me. I either need
a permission to break a rule or it can
uh receive an alternate trajectory via
breadcrumbs that it is still in charge
of deciding it's safe enough to
maneuver." And so obviously the the as I
my team's gonna kill me for saying this,
but I've I've always said, look, if I'm
going to need one or two people for each
robot, we might as well not do this. Uh
because then it's already being served
today,
>> right? It it doesn't work if you've got
one person who's watching one car and
then another person who's cleaning it.
But as you scale up um as a business
where one person is watching x amount of
cars and one person is taking care of x
amount of vehicles uh you start to get
some scale and some savings and and
that's where you you see the business
going forward.
>> Absolutely.
>> What happens if somebody pukes in the
car?
>> Ah this is especially in Vegas. I
suppose we should be prepared for that.
>> What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas.
Maybe it stays inside the back of a
zuks.
>> There you go.
>> You can use that tagline if you want for
your advertising.
>> I will I will give you credit for it. Uh
so basically what we do is we're
monitoring the inside of the the vehicle
and uh that vehicle would be pulled out
of base and either out of the fleet and
either go to a hub or uh go back to
depot. given what your your goals are,
um it's hard to see a connection to
Amazon other than as patient capital,
but is there a connection there? I mean,
they they're fast becoming the world's
biggest logistics company. I could see
some some potential overlap, but are
there any ideas about that? Have there
been in the past?
>> They are more than patient capital. They
they've also done a lot of different
businesses. There's a lot of experience
there. Uh and so they also give us
really good advice, they challenge us.
Uh the first order of business is to
deliver what we've said because again it
makes sense that if it's this hard to
solve the problem and it we all drive on
the same roads, right? The trucks, the
everybody drives on the same road. So
our first order is to deliver this
business and uh build it, grow it. Uh
we've had conversations about other
things we could do. Uh obviously
delivery is one but that's a tough
problem to solve and it still goes
through solving the first problem to
begin with.
>> Who do you see as your biggest
competitors as Zuks at this point? Is it
Whimo? Is it Tesla? Is it just Uber with
drivers?
>> So I'm a little different than most
people. Um this is a big industry. I try
and have some respect and humility. Um
and so I have called them fellow
travelers because I was not confused
that I was going to be alone or we were
going to be alone doing this. Uh that to
me would be delusional at least the way
I think. So its fellow travelers were
also indirectly in the safety business.
Uh what either of us does affects the
other whether we like it or not. So the
way I would answer your question is that
we've always thought that
there would be a wave of consolidation
past the demos and it would be three to
five players in America. Uh probably up
to 10 15 in China and then Europe we'll
see what happens uh as is the case on in
many different industries.
>> Three in the US and you think maybe
Whimo, Tesla and yourself. Who's Coke?
Who's Pepsi? What are you?
>> Oh, I'm uh h
I'm trying to uh I'm an excellent chai
latte.
>> Well, well, I I guess I'm I'm curious on
that field of competition. I I get get
what you're saying and it's still
probably a few years away before the
competition gets very intense and we all
know it will, but I wonder how do you
compete against the likes of a Whimo or
a Tesla? Because in a lot of ways if the
robot is driving it, it's almost a
commodity experience. Is it a race to
the bottom or is it a a race to create
the most luxurious box on wheels?
>> So we look at it as the customer
experience and the full end to- end
experience including customer support by
the way uh is going to be key. We think
that uh uh our experience is magical. I
mean this is your space. Uh you don't
think about driving. You're not like,
"Oh, the wheel is moving. Is that okay?"
or anything like that. It's like
whatever you were doing before you
entered, you can continue doing it. Uh
I've had some people crank up the music
and start just rocking out there. I've
had some people just meditate. So, uh
the the personalization, uh the
simplicity, all of those things are what
we think we will offer. And we have a
parent that knows a lot about
operations, uh that will teach us a lot
about operations, too. uh which is key
because little things like that matter.
Pick up and drop off, wait times, uh
when something goes wrong, how do you
react? How quickly do you react? Uh and
so we think that will be up there in
terms of that. It's almost like, yeah,
it's a first class seat, but you you
paid coach, you paid for coach. We just
heard about how Zuks will tackle the
nitty-gritty of rolling out a fleet of
robo taxis, but the company faces the
additional challenge of rolling out a
vehicle that looks like almost nothing
else on the road. This almost wasn't the
case, and the history of the company's
funky ride is a tale worth hearing.
>> All of my mentors, friends, sponsors
would be like, "The first thing you need
to do is get rid of that vehicle. That
is the first thing you need to do. Those
people are crazy."
>> That's next.
You mentioned that you think in in the
US there'll probably be three big
players here ultimately after the
consolidation is done. Um you know
obviously Whimo is is going from
strength to strength. Tesla always feels
like a wild card to me because of course
they have an incredibly uh deep bench of
talent but you know the sort of revealed
reality of uh their
you know so-called full self-driving
software which is on the road in in
personal vehicles is always that it it
can be a little erratic in in ways that
uh certainly folks find unnerving.
But it sounds like you think that
they're credible. Why is that? like what
can you kind of square that circle for
me?
>> It's just I mean it's not my I don't
like it when people criticize zuks and
tell us what we're doing or not doing
even though they have no internal
information of what's on what's really
going on in here. So I'm not going to
treat somebody or another company a way
I wouldn't want to be treated. I don't
know what they're up to. I know what
they've said and uh obviously like the
same is true for us. The proof is in the
pudding. I mean when I arrived in uh
whenever it was six years ago um the
number of people I mean all of my
mentors, friends, sponsors would be like
the first thing you need to do is get
rid of that vehicle. That is the first
thing you need to do. Those people are
crazy. Blah blah blah blah blah blah.
And I was like wait what about I go in
there and seek to understand and get a
little bit more information because you
know I I'm not one that tends to think
people are stupid. So I I have to take
them at their word and they it's the
same bar we have. We can say whatever we
want, but if we don't show up with a
driving thing, then we have to shut up.
>> At this point, Tesla is saying a robot
taxi they plan on deploying this summer
in Texas. Another competitor, Uber CEO,
uh told our colleague Joanna Stern in
Davos, uh that he didn't see humans
being replaced in scale behind the wheel
for at least another 15 to 20 years. Is
that the time when robots replace humans
behind the wheel or is it sooner? I want
to be careful because that's that can be
fairly uh inflammatory. Um remember we
we are uh we are creating a lot of jobs
at all skills levels. Uh and uh and
that's not going to to stop. So I think
we're just having humans do different
things than being behind the wheel.
Look, it depends on how you define
scales. If we're talking about covering
the entire United States and even uh
venturing internationally, yeah, I think
that's a reasonable time frame. Uh but
along the way, city by city, state by
state, you will see progress. Progress.
Again, if you have the uh the chance to
be in uh in um in San Francisco, it's
pretty amazing. No if and buts and and
Teedra and Dimmitri, please say thank
you after this podcast. Literally, you
whip out your phone. Uh you download
Whimo and
few minutes you're good to go and you
say where to and you enter the
information and off it goes. I like that
you believe that the co-CEOs of Whimo
are avid listeners of this program. I I
believe they probably should be uh
because you are also getting at an issue
that I think uh that they are dealing
with over at Whimo that Tesla will have
to deal with that traditionally in this
country uh we have regulated the car at
the federal level and we have regulated
the driver at the state level. So the
big question becomes when the car is the
driver, where does that regulation fall?
Right now it appears that it's going to
be at the state level though there is a
push for it to be federal. What do you
think needs to occur there?
I mean the first thing is uh uh I can
wish for many things but I have to first
learn to live with what is currently
happening. And so we work super hard uh
to uh to to be transparent, have no
surprises and really in a collaborative
manner at the federal level because we
have the vehicle uh at the state level
because uh they basically uh regulate
the driving and the driver and also at
the city level because it's their
streets and different cities want
different things at different time. So
that's how it is right now and uh it's
uh it's at least um it's at least
possible. None of us are really going to
20 cities overnight. So I think for now
it's okay. But as we start to enter the
medium to large scale as an industry, I
obviously hope that we can deal with
less than three regulatory agencies. And
so it'd be it'd be nice if there was
some unification, but you know, beggars
are not choosers. In the meantime, we
have what we have and we're lucky that
there's even a way to do it.
>> It's been clear throughout the evolution
of this industry that the gating factor
is safety
>> and obviously Uber crews had incidents
that, you know, led them to shut down or
sell off their programs.
What, if anything, have you learned from
from the failures, the safety failures
of those programs?
>> Learned a lot. Um, I I I uh I joke uh
that um um sometimes there are some
advantages to being number two. Uh
uh look, one of the things with Zuks is
because we because our robo taxi is what
we believe is the final sort of uh
hardware solution uh at scale. Uh there
is a luxury we don't have. I can't say,
"Oh, don't worry about it. If something
happens, we'll just send a driver to
drive it away." I also don't want to run
a business where we're, you know,
flooding the city with tow trucks to go
rescue these robots. And so
safety,
it's totally foundational to everything
we do. But I'll be honest, no matter how
many scenarios you think about, uh you
always find out another scenario. And so
we've learned to
really think about not just safety in
don't hit something, don't injure, don't
have a fatality, but also in what
happens when you're standing still. And
there are other what other what what
reactions are you causing? Because this
thing is different from what human
drivers are. And then every time that we
see something happens, we we we
basically add to our bank and to our
regression and to our structured
testing. And then last but not least, in
all of our computational for safety
models, we assume that there's something
we don't know. And when that happens,
how do we want to react? And then the
third vector is uh and sometimes it's
hard super transparent with uh
everybody, the first responders, the
PDS, fire, uh the cities, uh at the
federal level, at the state level, super
transparent so people know what to
expect. And so we we build a little bit
of a bank of credibility. We never want
to leave them with the impression that
we didn't tell them what they were
asking about fully.
>> Well, buckle up. The future is here.
Aisha Evans, thank you and see you out
on the road.
>> My pleasure. And uh I hope to see you uh
soon uh for Zuk's rides.
>> Since this interview, Zuks opened a
second factory for its purpose-built
vehicles. It also expanded robo taxi
testing to LA and Atlanta and is
planning future commercial service in
Miami and Austin. Zuk's vehicles were
also involved in two minor crashes,
including one where an escooter rider
hit an empty robo taxi. Zuk said the
rider declined medical attention for
minor injuries from the collision. The
company issued software recalls in
response. Stick around after the break.
We are going to get into all of the
latest on robo taxis and self-driving
tech. What this means for Tesla, Whimo,
Zuks, and their giant bet that they can
disrupt the entire automobile industry.
So Tim,
you actually spent time with Aisha
Evans. What did you find most surprising
in meeting her and in experiencing this
self-driving technology in her presence?
You know, one of the things I think is
really highlighted by the things you
hear her say,
um, is the attention to what some might
think of as boring details, the
operational things that are required to
make this uh, technology work. Zuk's
parent company, Amazon, really, as you
know, is a supply chain company that has
mastered the very technical, very
boring, but super important things of
getting books or everything else in life
delivered to people on a regular basis.
And if you think about robot taxis, um,
we are moving into the era of that's
really like a supply chain company in
some ways, right? It has to operate. It
has to get people to a certain place. It
has to get the cars charged. It has to
keep the cars clean. It has to make sure
they follow the laws and the regulations
and super important details that could
decide who wins and loses. If you think
about other players in this, Whimo came
out of a software company. They had to
build that infrastructure of how to keep
these cars going and they have,
>> right? It's called fleet management,
right? I mean this is what hurts Renard.
>> Absolutely right. So that's something
that perhaps being associated with
Amazon will help them. Um and I I say
that because when you look at at what
Musk is doing with Tesla, they have not
really highlighted all of that effort in
the background. It doesn't mean they're
not doing it. Now I've got some
questions for you about that because you
are the Tesla expert. You know, there
have been reports that uh castings for
robo taxis are piling up at Gigafactory
Austin. Um I mean, they're literally
being stacked up outside the factory
where people can take pictures of them.
Is that not evidence of their ramping up
in the way that you're describing or or
or is that just a piece of
>> That's just a piece of that's that's
that highlights what I think a lot of
supporters of Tesla would say is their
advantage. They build cars, right? So
they can build the robots uh they can
churn them out. Uh but Tesla has not yet
demonstrated that fleet management
capability for a robot taxi fleet. Uh
the ability of deploying uh tens, 20s,
30s, thousands, hundreds of thousands,
millions of vehicles like Musk is
talking about. That's super complicated.
Um who is going to clean out the vomit
in the back seat, right? Is that going
to be uh Elon Musk doing that? Is it
going to be you if you own one and
you're deploying it in his robot taxi uh
service,
>> right? Maybe Optimus can the robot.
>> Possibly. I mean, they they talk about
uh automating some of these these
features and that's kind of out there,
but it's also, you know, that's unproven
at this point. So, that's that's kind of
one of the questions if you kind of you
compare these companies together.
Whimo's out there figuring that out.
Zuk's parent company has experience with
fleet management, all this stuff. Uh
Musk and Tesla have experience in
manufacturing. All these companies come
at this very hard problem from a
different kind of lens. And it's not yet
clear who's the right player.
>> Does the America party affect this in
any way?
>> Absolutely it does. Uh
I mean you can't I mean we joke
>> that would be Elon Musk new political
>> Yeah. You can't I mean we joke but in a
lot of ways this is a political uh
endeavor. Um we saw for General Motors
it's cruise autonomous car operation in
San Francisco really kind of run into
trouble when it had an incident somebody
was injured. Um politically that was
very hard for them to navigate and we
have seen that um local politics is very
important but also state and national uh
politics are going to be very important
as Musk and others try to navigate the
quilt of regulations that uh are out
there trying to kind of set the rules
for these robots.
>> Right? These companies need a social
license to operate. And and you know,
it's one thing if
you're a social media company and you're
secretly rotting teenagers brains and we
won't know about that until like 15
years from now, but this happens. You
know, it's life and death right here on
the roads.
>> Absolutely. You start running people
over and killing them. That's not good
for your shareholder return. I mean, I
guess question Mims for you is, are you
ready to buy one of these things? I
definitely wouldn't buy one, but I
thought the whole model was I don't have
to own a car anymore. For me personally,
here's what I want and there's already
some good reporting on this.
People have talked about how teens are
starting to take Whimos.
So, just as Aisha mentioned in our
interview, she called herself a soccer
mom. Not having to fy kids around is
potentially a huge use case for
self-driving vehicles. And as somebody
who has devoted the last 15 years of my
life to fing children from one place to
another, I cannot wait for that burden
to be completely lifted off of my
shoulders. And I think that
that's kind of the acid test for this,
right? Like if people are willing to put
their kids in these cars and rely on
them, I mean, first off, parents will
pay a lot for that and it's worth a lot,
right? Because that's the point at which
maybe it does mean not a second vehicle
or if the total addressable market is
the cost of maintaining a second or even
a third vehicle plus the cost of
insuring a teenager which is eyewatering
just so they can have a ride, you know,
a handful of times per week. Forget
about it. This this thing will be
huge if they can just address that
market.
And that's bold names. Our producer is
Danny Lewis. We had additional help this
week from Ariana Aspiru. Michael Lval
and Jessica Fenton are our sound
designers. Jessica also wrote our theme
music. Our supervising producer is
Katherine Milstop. Our development
producer is Aisha Al-Muslim. Scott
Saloway and Chris Sinsley are the deputy
editors. And Felana Patterson is the
Wall Street Journal's head of news
audio. For even more, check out our
columns on wsj.com. We've linked them in
the show notes.
>> I'm Tim Higgins.
>> And I'm Christopher Mims. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]